# # ItemNumberSchemaDto

## Properties

Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**totalLength** | **int** | The count of tiers in the ItemNumberSchema | [readonly]
**tiers** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ItemNumberSchemaTierDto[]**](ItemNumberSchemaTierDto.md) | The collection of tiers for this ItemNumberSchema. | [optional]
**separator** | **string** | The separator to use for separiting the different levels in an ItemNumber. Defaults to DEFAULT_SEPARATOR, which is a point &#39;.&#39;. Setting this to a space or other whitespaces is discouraged, as this might not work correct in all situations and item numbers could be displayed not as intended. This can not be set to an empty or null string, trying that will default to the DEFAULT_SEPARATOR. If a value is set that has a different length than one &#39;1&#39;, the DEFAULT_SEPARATOR will be used instead. You should also not use values for the separator that are also valid for the item numbers themselves, as that might also lead to incorrect results | [optional]
**filler** | **string** | This string is used to fill (left-pad) item numbers. For example, if a tier has a length of &#39;4&#39; but the given item number is &#39;12&#39;, with a Filler of &#39;0&#39;, then the final item number will be represented as &#39;0&#39;. This must be a single character string, if a value is given where the Length property does not evaluate to &#39;1&#39;, the DEFAULT_FILLER &#39;0&#39; is used. A space is fine to use. You should ensure that you use a value different than Separator, as that might produce unexpected results. No attempt is done by the code to recover from such ambiguous configurations. | [optional]
**identifier** | **string** | This is just a string property that can optionally be used to store additional data for this ItemNumberSchema, e.g. an identification or a type. It does not have any influence over how item numbers are generated, and is not supported in most exchange formats. However, it is used to store ÖNorm service specification structure types. | [optional]
**skipNonExistingLevelsInPositionItemNumbers** | **bool** | This property indicates if ItemNumbers using this ItemNumberSchema should skip empty group levels. This is commonly only used in GAEB files, where there might be gaps in the hierarchy of elements and position identifiers should be placed at the end of the string representation. |
**skippedTiersFiller** | **string** | This string is used only when the property SkipNonExistingLevelsInPositionItemNumbers in this ItemNumberSchema is also set to true. It defaults to DEFAULT_SKIPPED_TIERS_FILLER, but can be set to any string with a lenght of one. Null values or values with a longer length will lead to this property reverting back to the default value. This is used to fill skipped tiers in item numbers where a position is placed in a higher hierarchy level than what would be defined in the Tiers. For example, it could produce an item number like &#39;01.__.02&#39;, which would indicate a skipped second level. This should be using different values than Filler and Separator, since that could cause ambiguities in the code that generates the actual item numbers. No attempt is done by the code to recover from such ambiguous configurations. | [optional]
**schemaIsCorrectlyDefined** | **bool** | This is a read-only property that indicates if this schema has a valid structure. It internally just returns the result from IsCorrectlyDefined. This will return if the ItemNumberSchema is correctly defined. For it to be correctly defined, the following conditions must be true: There may only be one lot group, if there is one, it must be at the top. Following lot levels, there may be at least one group level. After the group levels, there must be one position level. After the position level, there may be one index level. If no tiers are defined at all, this will also return false. | [readonly]
**allowUpperCaseLettering** | **bool** | Defaults to false. If this is disabled, all letters in the ItemNumber string representations will be transformed to their lowercase representation. |
**disableLeftPaddingTiersWithFiller** | **bool** | If this is set to true, single identifiers in an item number will not be left padded to fill the length of the tier. This is useful for allowing custom formats in item numbers, without following the GAEB standard. Defaults to false. |
**disableItemNumberIdentifierTransformations** | **bool** | If this is enabled, then item numbers will not be transformed, except padded. This makes it possible to represent item numbers as-is from e.g. a GAEB file, and also mixing padded and non-padded segments in an item number. This is not recommonded to use by default, since it will lead to inconsistent item numbers in the project. |
**disableItemNumberIdentifierTransformationsOnlyForAlphanumericTiers** | **bool** | This property is used in combination with DisableItemNumberIdentifierTransformations. If this is enabled, then the transformation of item numbers is only disabled for alphanumeric tiers. This means that numeric tiers will still be padded with the filler character, but alphanumeric tiers will not be transformed |

[[Back to Model list]](../../README.md#models) [[Back to API list]](../../README.md#endpoints) [[Back to README]](../../README.md)
