# # PositionDto

## Properties

Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**unitPrice** | **float** | Will return the price per unit, rounded according to the project settings or the default value of three decimal places | [readonly]
**unitPriceOverride** | **float** | You can use this property to directly set the unit price for this position. This will override any given PriceComponents | [optional]
**quantity** | **float** | Will return this Position&#39;s total quantity, rounded to three decimal places. | [readonly]
**quantityOverride** | **float** | You can use this property to directly set the quantity for this position. This will override any given QuantityComponents | [optional]
**isComplementingPosition** | **bool** | This indicates true if this specific position is specified as a complementing position for any base position. |
**complementsPositions** | **string[]** | If IsComplementingPosition is set to true, this will indicate which base positions are targeted by this complementing position. | [optional]
**complementingPricePercentageOverride** | **float** | You can use this property to directly specify the total price of this position as a percentage of the sum of the total prices of base positions that this position complements. It will essentially set the total price for this position to the sum of all total prices of the positions specified in ComplementsPositions multiplied by the percentage here. If present, this has precedence over UnitPriceOverride as well as QuantityOverride. | [optional]
**complementingPricePercentage** | **float** | This is a read only property showing the total price of this positions as a percentage of the sum of the total prices of all base positions, in case this position is a complementing positions. If this position is not a complementing position, this will be null. Also, if no prices are present, this will also be null. | [optional]
**unitTag** | **string** | The tag of the unit used for this positions quantity. | [optional]
**labourComponents** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\LabourPriceComponentDto**](LabourPriceComponentDto.md) |  | [optional]
**priceComponents** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PriceComponentDto[]**](PriceComponentDto.md) | The single price components in this Position. Price components should not be handled directly on a per-position basis but set globally in the parent Projects ProjectInformation. | [optional]
**quantityComponents** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\CalculationDto[]**](CalculationDto.md) | The quantity components of this Position. | [optional]
**subDescriptions** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\SubDescriptionDto[]**](SubDescriptionDto.md) | Further structuring of this Position. | [optional]
**comissionStatus** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ComissionStatusDto**](ComissionStatusDto.md) |  |
**complementedBy** | **string[]** | A list of positions that complement this Position. The positions are referenced by their GUIDs. It might be used together with ComplementedByQuantities in case that only a given quantity is complemented by positions. | [optional]
**complemented** | **bool** | Will indicate if this Position is complemented in this ServiceSpecification by other Positions. It can not be set to false when there are entries in the ComplementedBy property. |
**amountToBeEnteredByBidder** | **bool** | Indicates that the amount for this Position is to be set by the bidder. |
**priceCompositionRequired** | **bool** | Indicates if the bidder demands for prices to be broken up into their price components. |
**useDifferentTaxRate** | **bool** | Indicates if this Position should use a different TaxRate than what is the default for the Project. |
**taxRate** | **float** | Will return either the parent ServiceSpecification&#39;s TaxRate or it&#39;s own if it has a different value. (For example, in Germany Water has a different TaxRate than regular Positions) |
**itemNumber** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ItemNumberDto**](ItemNumberDto.md) |  | [optional]
**deductionFactor** | **float** | The rate of deductions, i.e. 0.12m means 12% price deduction. |
**totalPrice** | **float** | Returns the product of UnitPrice times Quantity. | [readonly]
**totalPriceGross** | **float** | The total gross price for this Position. | [readonly]
**totalPriceGrossDeducted** | **float** | Total gross price after applied deductions. | [readonly]
**deductedPrice** | **float** | Net price after applied deductions. Please be aware that this is the total price, from TotalPrice, not the unit price of the position. | [readonly]
**positionType** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PositionTypeDto**](PositionTypeDto.md) |  |
**priceType** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PriceTypeDto**](PriceTypeDto.md) |  |
**serviceType** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ServiceTypeDto**](ServiceTypeDto.md) |  |
**productData** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ProductDataDto**](ProductDataDto.md) |  | [optional]
**shortText** | **string** | Short description for this DescriptionBase element. Please note that by default, this property takes precedence over the &#x60;HtmlShortText&#x60; property. If you want to convert from DTO objects, and you want to work with the &#x60;HtmlShortText&#x60; property, you need to set this property to null. | [optional]
**htmlShortText** | **string** | This contains the Html representation of the Shorttext. When the ShortText is set, this property will be set to contain the plain text representation of the Html text and vice versa. In practice, it&#39;s recommended to always use the plain text representations for short texts. This property is used to store the short text in HTML format. If you want to convert from DTO objects, and you want to use this property, then you need to ensure that &#x60;ShortText&#x60; is set to null, otherwise the plain text takes precedence over the HTML text. | [optional]
**longText** | **string** | Detailed description for this DescriptionBase element. When the HtmlLongText is set, this is automatically overwritten and filled with the appropriate plain text representation of the Html text. Vice versa, setting this property overrides the HtmlLongText. | [optional]
**htmlLongText** | **string** | This contains the Html representation of the Longtext. When the LongText is set, this is automatically overwritten and filled with the appropriate Html representation of the plaintext. Vice versa, setting this property overrides the LongText. GAEB 90 and GAEB 2000 exports do not support any image functionality. In GAEB XML, only images that use an embedded Base64 data uri are exported, regular url references are cleared before written out. | [optional]
**additionType** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\AdditionTypeDto**](AdditionTypeDto.md) |  |
**elementType** | **string** |  | [optional]
**quantityAssignments** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\QuantityAssignmentDto[]**](QuantityAssignmentDto.md) | Quantity assignments are, in contrast to SubDescriptions, used to categorize parts of this Position. For example, it could be categorized by cost group - e.g. a Position describing concrete walls could follow the German DIN 276 Cost Groups Standard and specify that of the total 1.000m² wall, 500m² are classified as exterior walls and 500m² are classified as interior walls. They would then have different cost groups associated, e.g. for accounting purposes. | [optional]
**commerceProperties** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\CommercePropertiesDto**](CommercePropertiesDto.md) |  | [optional]
**alternativeTo** | **string** | If this position is an Alternative, then this property should point to the id of the position in this service specification that it can replace. If this is set to a value, you can optionally also specify an identifier via AlternativeIdentifier to specifiy multiple positions that must be used together to be an alternative to a single base position. | [optional]
**alternativeIdentifier** | **int** | This is an optional property that can be used together with AlternativeTo. If this is set, you can indicate which alternative group a specific position is assigned to. That way, if you specifiy multiple alternative Positions with the same AlternativeIdentifier, you can indicate that to replace a single base Position, multiple alternative Positions should be used. This property is not checked or managed automatically, so it is possible for this property to become invalid, by for example setting this property but not setting a base position via AlternativeTo. | [optional]
**alternativeGroupIdentifier** | **int** | This is an optional property that can be used together with AlternativeTo and AlternativeGroupIdentifier. If this is set, you can indicate which alternative group a specific position is assigned to. That way, you can specify the id (in integer format) for the alternative group this position belongs to. It&#39;s different to AlternativeIdentifier in that the other property describes the id of the group, while this property here describes the group itself. If a position only has set AlternativeGroupIdentifier but not AlternativeIdentifier, then it likely is a base position for a specific group. This was introduced in version v2.9.0 to be able to model both position and group ids for alternative group combinations. This property is not checked or managed automatically, so it is possible for this property to become invalid, by for example setting this property but not setting a base position via AlternativeTo. | [optional]
**isLumpSum** | **bool** | If this is true, it indicates that the position is intended to be a lump sum, \&quot;Pauschal\&quot; in German. This means the position total price that is being invoiced should not depend on the actual quantity. In practice, partial invoices are still often used for partial services rendered. This property does not affect the price calculation for this position. Typically, the Quantity should be set to 1.0 when this flag is used. |
**repetitionTo** | **string** | This identifier can be used to point to the Id of a position in the same ServiceSpecification that acts as a base position. It matches \&quot;Bezugsposition\&quot; in GAEB. This can be used for positions that repeat partially or are linked together | [optional]
**standardizedDescription** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\StandardizedDescriptionDto**](StandardizedDescriptionDto.md) |  | [optional]
**complementedByQuantities** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\ComplementedByQuantityDto[]**](ComplementedByQuantityDto.md) | This list contains references to positions that complement this one, additionally also specifying a quantity for which the addition is intended. This does not replace the ComplementedBy property and there are no automatic checks being done between these two properties, so it&#39;s up to the user code to ensure deletions (and additions, if desired) are performed for both properties. When copying withing keeping Ids, this list will not be part of the copy process, since it would only contain quantities without actual position references. Containers, however, will rebuild the list with updated position references when copying positions that contain entries here. | [optional]
**executionDescriptionReference** | **string** | This identifier can be used to point to the Id of an ExecutionDescription in the same ServiceSpecification. ExecutionDescriptions act as a way to centrally describe how positions should be executed in practice. Often, the position itself still has text of its own to highlight deviations from that or add more details. | [optional]
**notOffered** | **bool** | This indicates if a position has not been offered. This is typically only expected to be true when the exchange phase of the parent ServiceSpecification is Offer, and it means that the position has not been offered at all. |
**oenormPositionProperties** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\OenormPositionPropertiesDto**](OenormPositionPropertiesDto.md) |  | [optional]
**descriptionId** | **string** | This is an identifier specific for this description. Some exchange formats, like GAEB XML, use it to identify descriptions. It&#39;s different to an elements identifier in that it should only apply to the description component, meaning the text itself. | [optional]
**hierarchyLevel** | **int** | This is a zero based hierarchy level. It&#39;s set automatically when used in the context of a Project, and can be used to identify the hierarchy level of the current element. |
**addendumStatus** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\AddendumStatusDto**](AddendumStatusDto.md) |  | [optional]
**hasBidderCommentInHtmlLongText** | **bool** |  | [readonly]
**gaebComplementingType** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PositionComplementingTypeDto**](PositionComplementingTypeDto.md) |  |
**holdOutProperties** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PositionHoldOutPropertiesDto**](PositionHoldOutPropertiesDto.md) |  | [optional]
**estimatedQuantity** | **float** | This is an informational property, which directly holds a numerical value for an estimated quantity. It is not used for any price calculations. | [optional]
**priceCatalogueData** | [**\Dangl\AVACloud\Model\PriceCatalogueDataDto**](PriceCatalogueDataDto.md) |  | [optional]
**ignoreProjectCataloguePropagation** | **bool** | If this is set to true, the ProjectCatalogues property will not be propagated to child elements. This is useful in mapping scenarios, where you want to disable propagation for multiple changes, and only enable it once you have mapped all properties. |
**isMainPosition** | **bool** | A main position means that this position is important and should be highlighted in the user interface. Important meaning that is is usually a bigger part of the total sum of the services, or it needs special attention in another way. |

[[Back to Model list]](../../README.md#models) [[Back to API list]](../../README.md#endpoints) [[Back to README]](../../README.md)
